Today I'm here in Busousan, South Korea,
where we are just moments away from that
high stakes [music] in-person meeting
between Presidents Trump and she. Of
course, a lot of questions whether the
framework in Malaysia is going to be
finalized [music] here in South Korea.
We got you covered here on the China
show. I'm Ivon Man
>> and I'm David here [music] in Hong Kong
studios. We're counting down to reopen
up markets here in Hong Kong. Uh the
continued of course trading in Shanghai
and Shenzhen. Let's get to your top
stories today. Trump and she are set to
[music] finalize a trade truce that
could see some tariffs and some export
restrictions roll back. China resuming
US soybean purchases ahead of those
stocks. Now, uh stocks across [music]
the Asia- Pacific well struggling for
direction. That's after J. Powell. The
Fed share downplays chances of a rate
reduction in December [music] after the
cut today. Investors now waits the BOJ
and also the ECB. The corporate results
also in focus with [music] traders
bracing for the busiest day for earnings
in China.
>> And I'm Hinda Ahmed at the Barclay's
Asia Forum here in the Lion City. Just
ahead, we speak with former central bank
officials and top market voices as trade
geopolitics and monetary policy dominate
the headlines.
Well, welcome to the China [music] show.
We are bringing the show to you live
here in Busousan, South Korea, where in
just about an hour's time, we are
expecting Presidents Trump and she to
meet here at Busousan. Here we're just
about close to the International
Airport. We're expected to hear and see
President Xi arriving here to attend of
course the APEC summit. Uh also we're
hearing of course where when they're
going to meet in just a moment's time.
So certainly a lot is at stake here.
Sunny day here. Can the clouds finally
part on this US China relationship here?
And what was agreed upon in KL? Can we
actually see a finalized agreement and
signed by the presidents here? That's
going to be very key here. We just
learning that President Xi has left
Beijing just about half an hour ago,
expected to come here to Busousan. And I
want to take you now to my colleague,
our chief North Asia correspondent
Stephen Angel, who's joining us live
outside the airport on what's going on
there. And he's watching all the action.
Steve?
>> Yeah, that's right. The security is
pretty tight here outside of the
Republic of Korea. Air Force Fifth
Mobility Air Wing. It's a long title,
but that is the Air Force base here next
to the Gimh International Airport of
Busousan where uh we did see Air Force
One parked on the tarmac uh in the build
behind the buildings uh behind me. Uh
and then of course you just said that
Xiinping left Beijing in his 747 Air
China 747 about a half hour ago. So they
will meet here. We have told that
possibly uh President Trump will be
arriving uh from Gyongju
by helicopter and then he possibly will
go out of here uh in the beast in his
limousine. Uh so that's why we're
positioned here. Other international
media also positioned here. It is quite
the culmination Ivonne of course of
months of trade chaos if you will up and
down of tariffs and negotiations. five
rounds of talks between Hulifang leading
the Chinese delegation and Scott Bessant
leading the US delegation. Uh they're
all going to be here, we're told. Well,
we do know that Scott Besson is here,
Howard Lutnik is here, Marco Rubio is
here, and of course, Donald Trump will
be right here very shortly to possibly
have that big handshake with Xiinping
and formalize that trade truce. The big
question, of course, Ivonne, is how long
will this truce last and will it go deep
enough to resolve a lot of the
fundamental differences?
>> Yeah, I think that's the big question
markets are asking right now. Is this
just going to be a temporary, you know,
short-term fix or a significant thaw in
the US China relationship? I think most
people that we talked to say, look, it
could be just something that's temporary
right now. some of the structural issues
between the two is certainly something
that's going to be continue on for for
maybe even months or years. So, but we
are hearing some inklings of what the at
least the US side of things and what
they want to accomplish here in
Busousan. We're hearing inklings of
fentinel tariffs that could be lowered,
soybean purchases by China, and whether
we see a watering down of those export
curbs, but now those seem to be in some
ways the first two at least, Steve, the
lowhanging fruit.
>> Yeah, that's right. Now, what the
interesting dynamic here to me is, as
having covered China for so long, I I
kind of see it as China didn't
necessarily blink when Donald Trump
threatened higher tariffs, including
just a couple of weeks ago uh
threatening another 100% on top of what
there is right now. So, upwards of 155%.
China gained a lot of leverage uh since
the first trade war in the first Trump
administration and they found a very big
bargaining chip in the rare earth and
critical minerals and magnets things
that the United States and the tech
supply chain need things that European
and its automobile industry need other
the rest of the world in the
industrialized world need these things
that China has control over or at least
90% plus of the control so China had
that huge huge lever and that's why
we're seeing possible major concessions
by the United States. I'm not saying
there's winners or losers right now.
I'll leave that to the pundits and the
analysts and the economists and the
politicians. But what is clear is that
China
has the United States number when it
comes to rare earths. They also have the
number when it comes to soybean
purchases. Clearly, they diversified
their buying, their procurement paths.
They went to Argentina. They went to
Brazil. They didn't go to the Midwest of
the United States. They didn't go to
American farmers at all since the
harvest began in the beginning of
September. So, not surprising. That is a
lever that China could relax a little
bit. We're hearing that at least a
couple of cargos have been purchased of
American soybeans that could be shipped
to uh China very shortly. Fentinel also
widely considered. I've been saying it.
It should be a lowhanging fruit. All
China has to do is say, "Okay, we will
do what we can to cut down if if it's
happening on the precursors, the the
making and the exporting of the
precursors of the drug fentanyl." It
looks as though the Chinese delegation
has said, "Yeah, okay. We will do our
best to do that." So, chi so Trump might
reduce those 20% added tariffs. What
we're hearing from sources is maybe down
to 10. It's not definitive right now.
Again, we need to get more solid
evidence. And the big bargaining chip,
Ivonne, as you know, is for the United
States to possibly say, "Look, you you
remove those export controls on critical
minerals, we will allow you to buy the
highest end of the AI accelerators from
Nvidia, which Jensen Hang, the CEO of
Nvidia, has been bargaining for saying
they're in an awkward position right
now. what was used to be a big market,
one of the biggest markets for Nvidia is
down to zero because even China is
saying, "We don't want your H20 watered
down chip. We want the Blackwell. We
want the latest technology." And it
looks as though that's something Donald
Trump is willing uh to acquies on.
>> It seems like there might be some wiggle
room on both of those things when it
comes to export curves on the US side,
on the China side. What do we know so
far, Steve, on what might not be
discussed? I think Taiwan, this
certainly has been the thorniest sort of
issue between the two. And it seems like
that might not be that high up on the
priority list this time around.
>> Yeah, we're seeing helicopters coming
over. I'm not so sure. Now, this looks
like some Marine helicopters coming. Uh
it's not necessarily
is it Air Force 2 is the helicopter? I'm
not sure. I can't remember the call
sign. But anyway, what's not going to be
discussed? Well, Donald Trump
essentially alluded to it yesterday. you
say what what is there and I'm
paraphrasing what's there to gain right
now uh with trying to bring up the
Taiwan issue for China Taiwan is a red
line issue uh that could be well that
looks like military helicopters right
now but anyway the precursors and the
the the advanced teams are definitely
coming here to Busousan right now but we
all we all know China's position on
Taiwan it's nonnegotiable it's a red
line so Trump wants victories here he's
not going to get necessarily a victory
on some sort of um clarification on
America's position on Taiwan. Strategic
ambiguity has been the long strategic uh
protocol, if you will, from the United
States, backed by the Taiwan US
Relations Act. So, I think Taiwan is not
necessarily on the table for this trade
truce and any kind of trade agreement
that is going to be had today. By the
way, I want to add here as we are also
not just waiting Donald Trump, we're
awaiting the arrival of Xiinping. We see
across the street here uh lots of I I I
don't want to say they're bustin
supporters, but they look like it. There
are a lot of people carrying Chinese
flags and Korean flags, red hats, and
they're there to welcome clearly
Xiinping. I don't see too many American
flags, by the way, Ivon.
>> I don't either where we are. And I just
heard that a helicopter just fly over
from where we are here as well. But
certainly as you mentioned about the
Chinese and the delegation heading over
here, keep in mind Xiinping will be
making a speech at the APE summit there
as well as of course they transition the
next APE to China, right? So that's
going to be one to focus on later on as
well after these talks. There's still a
lot on the agenda when it comes to
what's happening in Gongju despite all
the action is here in the next few hours
in Busousan. And this on the back of
also President Trump and the South
Korean president Lie Muan coming up with
a pretty surprising breakthrough in
their trade deal as well. So lowering
those auto terrorists to 15% and really
putting it on the equal footing with the
Japanese and European auto car makers as
well. I'm going to get back to Dave in
the studio. Dave, you have some breaking
news.
>> We do have some breaking news also
concerning the meeting that is about to
take place where you guys are. So he had
two uh truth social post from the US
president in succession and I would
imagine the sequence of which
[clears throat]
um uh not a coincidence. Number one, he
has in and I'm going to paraphrase here
because it's quite long. He's he's
instructed the Department of War to
start testing
nuclear weapons and that the process
will begin fairly immediately. Is that a
flex ahead of this meeting taking place?
That's the context on your screens. The
other uh the other post that's just
coming through as well um out of the US
president, he's also saying that the G2
will be convening shortly. I imagine G2
perhaps meaning the US and China. That
meeting taking place very shortly as
both presidents
are headed to Busousan where Steven
Angel of course and Ivonne are uh for us
today. In fact, Ivonne, let me let let
me toss it straight back to you uh where
you are. What are we seeing now as far
as this is concerned? Oh, there we go.
Okay, Ivonne, go ahead.
>> There you go. You are seeing there uh
what looks to be a motorcade that's
going to be arriving here at of course
at Gimhi International Airport. And yes,
we are just about 45 minutes away from
these expected talks to happen. Keep in
mind, you know, the President Xi did
leave about a little over 40 minutes
ago. So, we'll see if if these talks are
happening and on time, I should say
they're going to be happening, but yeah,
it seems likely that it might be delayed
just a bit here just given how long it
takes to come from Beijing uh to
Busousan, but it seems like at least uh
we're seeing some more action here at
the airport in Busousan. Uh a lot to
talk about. We we mentioned about what
could happen whether it comes to
fentinel, when it comes to soybeans, uh
when it comes to even the export curb
side of things here. What we also look
to be looking at here in this is there
going to be a signed agreement. If
there's something on paper that
certainly would be quite telling of
where they are and whether both sides
are committed to really uh for some sort
of temporary fix in this longgoing
relationship. So we're hoping to see a
bit more of that. If we have some
numbers maybe fixed volume of soybeans
that certainly is one thing the market
say might be a new sort of development
here. We had the likes of Morgan
Stanley's Laura Wang. Her team says if
you start to see a combination of when
you, you know, when it comes to ship
levies, when it comes to soybean
purchases or fentinel, you know, that
could actually help boost markets. Dave.
>> Yeah, I I think the number that she's
giving out, well, not so much a number,
but some guidance is mid singledigit
upside on MSEI China in the event, of
course, we get more uh developments and
progress on those specific issues. And
as you can see, the pageantry of
politics is firmly on display right now.
This should be happening in the next uh
a few hours or so. 11:00 a.m. local time
in Busousan. So that translates if on
time if on time in just over 45 minutes
uh from now. We'll revisit the scenes on
the ground in a moment. Just very
quickly, let's have a look at these
markets right now and how we're trading
ahead of that meeting. post Fed post
big tech earnings ahead of an extremely
busy earnings docket uh on MEI China
today. As you can see, we were early on
really saw some weakness but as you can
see now we are slightly to the upside as
a lot of the big sort of tech uh tech
oriented benchmarks have come online.
You have Korea, you have Samsung coming
out with a detailed breakdown of their
earnings. You have Taiwan 710 of 1%. The
Blackwell chip play very much in focus
following the tailwinds coming out of
Nvidia overnight. Uh Blackwell to China
question mark. There we go. Right. The
other big story of course which is the
offset is hawkish adjustment in pricing
across markets right now. Um if the
dollar as you can see as you can see is
weaker. We are still on the upside
compared to this time yesterday. Yields
as you can see have adjusted
substantially higher. We're now 78 basis
points clear of the 4% handle in gold as
you can see is they're still seeing some
weakness right now after opening near in
fact 3900. Uh going into the open today
we have a reopen of markets here in Hong
Kong and we're looking at futures
pointing to a flat open there. Now we
have a lot more coming through as well
here on the show. So you have politics,
you have monetary policy and more on the
latter coming through out of the
Barclays Asia forum in Singapore in a
moment. And boy do we have an extremely
busy docket there as well. RBA Governor
Phil Lowe will be joining us there
[music] at the Barkley. Some meticul
live pictures of course. There we go. Um
out of Korea where that is a chopper.
[music] Is that Marine One? That's a
question mark for me. Anyway, we'll be
revisiting this as of course both
[music]
presidents descend on Busousan for this
historic meeting taking place today. We
have you all covered. You're watching
the China Show.
We continue to face two-sided risks.
In the committee's discussions at this
meeting, there were strongly differing
views about how to proceed in December.
[music]
A further reduction in the policy rate
at the December meeting is not a
foregone conclusion.
Far from it.
>> There we go. That was Jay Powell
overnight. He had a [music] rate
reduction out of the Fed 25 basis
points. He had two denters, one in favor
of a larger cut, the other one of course
was in favor of a hold. Uh the big story
of course was the push back uh pulling
market expectations back ahead of the
Fed the December rate cut where you had
pricing suggesting uh near certainty and
that now is down to about 2/3 uh
probability. We'll get to all of those
numbers in a moment, but in fact, let's
continue the conversation here. Uh,
monetary policy, uh, take you straight
back to the Barclays forum taking place
in Singapore right now, the 19th annual
Asia Forum. And our co-anchor, Hun Amen,
is there at the events for us and
joining us live with her next guest, H.
>> Well, that's right. And we have the
right man for the conversation. Former
Reserve Bank of Australia, Governor
Philip Low is with me. Good to have you
with us.
>> Great to be with you. We're just talking
about uh how Powell pushed back on uh
the move in December. This is a cautious
move. It is, you know, leaving the the
option is also a riskmanagement move.
That's what it is perceived as. Do you
agree?
>> 100%. I mean, the world's very uncertain
at the moment. Um the outlook for the US
economy and inflation's uncertain and
there are a lot of global um uh things
to take into consideration. So I think
the right thing to do was to move and
then to to give themselves option
optionality for the next move
>> and also the trade deal that could come
out of uh Korea right now. I mean how
closely are you watching that and how do
you think that's influencing the minds
shaping the conversations among central
bankers?
>> Well the trade deal or potential trade
deal is incredibly important. I mean the
world has a strong vested interest in
China and the US getting on. um both
they uh they'll both be better off if
they get on and we'll all be better off
if they get on. So uh if they don't get
on then the global landscape looks very
different but if they do um then we can
look forward to stronger growth. So it's
it's hugely important.
>> Of course the Chinese economy is very
much intertwined with the Australian
economy. It is the largest export
market. uh crucially we have been able
to see China finding alternative markets
uh despite uh the tariffs imposed by the
US. Do you think this will continue to
be so for China?
>> Well, the Chinese trade diversion is
causing kind of reduced inflation
pressure in Asia. There's clearly trade
diversion going on um and that's kind of
helpful um in this part of the world. I
think longer term I'm really optimistic
about China because I'm optimistic about
technology. In the end it's technology
that drives higher living standards and
China like the US is making huge
investments in new technologies and in
the end I think that will drive higher
living standards. There are issues at
the moment in terms of the housing
market and uh weakness in parts of some
parts of Chinese manufacturing, but in
the end I'm optimistic about China and
that will be good for Australia and if
the US gets on with China, it will be
good for the US as well.
>> Give a time frame for that. In the end,
when do you see a turnaround in China's
economy? Realistically, when can that
happen?
>> I think that the the property market
shakeout's got a while to come. I mean,
other countries, property prices rise
and they often fall very quickly.
there's a financial crisis and it the
country moves on fairly quickly. China's
taken a different approach. The property
price has been falling for a number of
years. They've avoided a financial
crisis, but there's a lot of stress
still in the system and there's probably
shake out to come. And while that
shakeout's occurring, households don't
want to spend. They don't want to invest
in new property because they think the
property price will be lower next year.
So that process, I think, still has some
way to run and it's weighing on the
Chinese economy now. But we do know that
process will run its course and Chinese
people will go back to wanting buying
houses there'll be positive wealth
effects and if they can get the
technology right and overcome the
cyclical forces from the decline in
housing I think we can look forward to
better days in the China but I think
it's still a couple years away
>> just like the Fed all central banks are
focused on fighting inflation if you
take a look at the RBA we've seen how
inflation surged recently out on
Wednesday and we're also seeing
unemployment rising. If you were still
in the chair
at the RBA, would you be pausing? Would
you be hiking? What would you be doing?
>> Well, I'm not in the chair, so that's
good. Um, but the the RBA recently said
that it's both data dependent and
cautious.
>> So, when you take a look at
>> I think that's right. And the d the
inflation data has spoken, hasn't it?
Inflation is was quite a lot higher than
they expected. And I would imagine that
the cautious approach then is to leave
interest rates where they are for a
while and just to see whether this is an
aberration or whether it's more
persistent. So uh the data spoken and I
think the cautious thing to do would be
to sit still for a while and see how
things develop.
>> Is the easing cycle likely over for the
RBA? What's the sense you're getting
>> given the data that
>> Yeah, I don't I don't think so because
the RBA says and I think this is correct
that monetary policy is still mildly
restrictive. But the underlying issue I
think is that unit labor cost growth is
too high. It's been running kind of
close to 5% for a number of years and if
you keep on having unit labor cost
growth of 5% you don't get 2 and a half%
inflation. So unit labor cost growth has
to slow. uh it's best if it slows
through productivity growth picking up
so that people can have strong wage
increases backed by productivity
increase but if that doesn't happen uh
then nominal wage growth has to slow and
that probably requires tight monetary
policy for a while. So for me this is
the big uncertainty what is growth in
unit labor cost going to be going
forward and while they work that out
it's best to sit still just in case it
doesn't slow. H what's the outlook for
the Australian economy in your mind and
what's the biggest risk?
>> The the economy is growing at 2%. It
seems to have settled into 2% growth
path. The fundamentals are really
positive because you got strong
population growth, AAA credit rating,
great natural resources, fantastic
education system and a dynamic and
innovative workforce. So the
fundamentals are kind of a positive. The
issue is that uh business investment has
been weak for a number of years and it's
not keeping pace with the growth in the
population. Population is rising 2% a
year. The capital stock is not. So the
capital stock is under pressure and
that's contributing to weak productivity
growth. So that's the big issue. How to
reen investment so the country's capital
stock starts rising again to match the
strong population growth. If it doesn't,
then living standards will stagnate. But
if it does, then the Australian economy
can do better than 2% because we've got
fantastic fundamentals. We've got to get
business investment re-energized.
>> We're having this conversation against a
backdrop of complexities for Sunel
Banks. Their independence is greatly in
question, not just the US, but also in
countries closer to us like Indonesia,
like Thailand. Is this the new normal
for for central banks?
>> Well, central banks have always lived in
a complex world. [laughter]
Remember in my time the central bank, we
had the Asian financial crisis, the
global financial crisis, co domestic
resources boom, an exchange rate boom
and then got
>> the independence has always been intact
and now it is in question. I think
that's key.
>> Yeah, the in Australia the independence
of the central bank is not not under
question. We had a review a number of
years ago. It led to some changes but
fundamentally that review reinforced the
independence of the central bank and the
operating framework. So um
>> how might this shake out for the world
given that it is in question in a
country like the US?
>> I'm not I mean I'm it's it's worry that
um politicians attack central banks but
they've always done that. Um but I'm not
too worried that uh attacks by
politicians on the central banks will
ultimately lead to higher inflation
because markets are a really powerful
discipline device. If a central bank
starts going off track, bond yields go
up, the currency goes down, the share
market goes down. And so that's kind of
a self-correcting device. And the other
thing that's um helps helps a central
bank would help a central bank if it's
going off track is the public distaste
for inflation. The last few years have
reminded people just how costly
inflation is. People don't like it. So
if a central bank starts um implementing
policies because a politician wants them
to and inflation starts to rise,
there'll be a backlash, a market
backlash and a society backlash. So as
long as you've got a clear operating
framework, decent people at the central
bank, market discipline, and a public
distaste for inflation, I can't see
inflation rates rising persistently in
Western countries. The independence of
the Fed has a bearing on the USD and
some say that if we see a weakening of
that independence, the dollar is headed
lower. How are you looking at that?
>> Uh well, if we see a weakening of the
independence of the Fed and you thought
there was going to be higher inflation,
then the US dollar should depreciate.
But I don't see um US going into a
persistently high inflation world
because of the factors that I just spoke
about. But um the US dollar it would not
surprising me surprised me if that were
to continue on its weakening trend
because of the um changes that US
administration have made have kind of
weakened people's confidence in the
United States and if you have weaker
confidence you have a weaker currency.
>> Mr. Low we have to leave it there.
Thanks so much for joining us. There are
developments in Korea that we have to go
to. Former Reserve Bank of Australia
Governor Philip Low there. Ivonne
handing it back to you.
>> Yeah. As you guys were talking, we're
just showing those live pictures here at
the Gimhi International Airport where
President Trump has arrived here in
Busousan. We did see his chopper land
and then the beast did take him inside
the airport. You're seeing those live
pictures now and we are now seeing
confirmation from Shin Hua News on the
Chinese side of things that President Xi
has also arrived in South Korea. So, we
are talking about these talks that could
start in about half an hour's time. It
looks like we are on schedule for
negotiations to start at the top of this
hour and certainly we are now seeing and
waiting for she to and of course those
live pictures. We'll bring it to you
once we do see them. But certainly
there's going to be a lot of talk. Uh
but it is right now at least a good sign
that both leaders are on time and ready
it seems to be kind of ironing out the
details of this framework that was
reached in Koala Lumpur. We talked about
fentinel. Whether we do see those levies
lowered from 20% to reportedly like the
Wall Street Journal has said yesterday
to 10%. That would be a quick win for
China. Whether we do see soybeans uh
there, that certainly is going to be
China resuming its purchases. That could
be also another breakthrough there as
well. Uh Dave, there's going to be a lot
going on. We'll kind of continue to
bring you the latest here, of course,
and bring you those pictures once we do
see the Chinese president.
>> Yeah. Um, and thank goodness for a lot
of screens. Right now, we're balancing a
lot of things. We're headed into the
opening bell right now. As Van was just
pointing out, Shinua reporting just
about just over two minutes ago that
President Xi Jinping has landed in in
South Korea minutes after the US
president also touching down. It's been
years since both uh were in the same
place and same city. We'll we'll we'll
get you more on that at least to meet
specifically uh ju just to qualify that
that that phrase right now. In fact, let
let's get more context on this. Uh we
have this one covered for you. You saw
Ivonne, she's in Busousan. Let's bring
in our team. Steven Angel, our chief
North Asia correspondent is also there
on the ground as with James Mer, our
senior reporter. He's in Gyongju for us.
Team, thank you so much uh for for
joining us. Lots to talk about here.
Steve, let me Steve, let me bring you
in. Set the scene for us ahead of this
meeting, which as Ivon is pointing out,
looks to be on schedule, Steve.
>> Yeah, I think that sends a pretty
positive signal. There have been uh
reports throughout the last day or so
here in Korea that either Trump has been
a little bit late to some of his the
speech that he gave. Uh and again the
fact that he is arriving he arrived a
half hour early before that 11:00 um
meeting with Xiinping and Xiinping has
now according to state media landed
here. Uh both gentlemen uh arriving well
in advance of the beginning of those
talks which are crucial. the world is
sort of watching to see if they can uh
cement a fairly lasting truce. I I say
that with a little bit of skepticism
because again the issues are deep and um
quite fundamental to each u of these
countries competitive advantages. Uh, so
they they hit on a number of those I I
wouldn't call them lowhanging fruit, but
they are issues that they could find
some common ground to at least propel
this truce uh for for a year, maybe two.
I can't predict that, but it's a good
sign that these two gentlemen are going
to be meeting and pretty much
formalizing uh that truce that was
arranged in Malaysia over the weekend.
Whether they're going to sign formal
documents uh cementing that yet to be
seen, but I think uh just the the
goodwill, they're both arriving on time.
They're likely to begin those talks
shortly in a half hour. Security is
fairly tight outside here. Uh the the
Republic of Korea Air Force fifth
mobility airwing. Uh that is the mobile
or excuse me, the the air force base of
the Korean military uh next to the
international airport here in Busousan.
Dave
I want to bring in my colleague James
now uh who is joining us there from
Yongju at the Apex Summit. And James,
you know, this is the first time the two
leaders have met since President Trump
returned to the White House here. You've
been covering China for the past seven
years now based in Beijing. What are you
going to be looking out for the most and
what would signal a win for China?
I mean I think if if there is certainty
on what tariff levels will be going
forward that is going to be a win for
Chinese companies. Chinese companies are
still able to export and are still
exporting you know billions of dollars a
billion dollars a day of goods is
traveling from China to the US even with
the tariff levels that they are. But if
Xiinping is able to secure a reduction
in those a 10 or 20 percentage point
reduction in tariffs for Chinese
products going to the US you know
because of you know the agreement on
fentinel that is a win for Chinese that
is a win for Chinese companies. If there
is an agreement on on on Tik Tok, you
know, that is another friction point in
the USChina relationship that can be
taken off the table. And I think
improving the, you know, improving the
trading relationship, creating certainty
for companies and then maybe turning
down the tone or turning down the heat
in in what has been a pretty tumultuous,
you know, 10-month period since 9 month
period since President Trump came back
came back into office. I think if those
things can be achieved, that really is a
win for the Chinese side. As Steven
said, this isn't taking all of the
issues off the table. There are still
many many more more very much more
intractable issues that really aren't
going to be discussed today in any great
detail. It seems, you know, Taiwan is
obviously one. Uh the massive imbalances
in trade, which Trump doesn't like. You
know, he clearly [music] doesn't like
the massive trade deficit that the US
has with China. These things aren't
going to be resolved today. uh but
removing a number of these problematic
issues from the table or creating some
kind of agreement is really a win for
both sides. It creates certainty and it
really does create more stability.
>> James, I think the last couple weeks the
issue of rare earths certainly did
rattle the world in some way when China
uh and basically amplified a little bit
on these export curbs uh when it came to
this global licensing regime. they have
been trying to at least downplay the
implications it could have on global
supply chains. Do you think they're
going to be doing enough or is that
going to be a significant concession
from the Chinese there if they actually
water down some of these curbs?
I mean I think you know the indications
are there will be some kind of in
[music] concession the US side is saying
the Chinese have you know Scott Besson
said the Chinese have agreed to delay
the implementation of that for a year
but you know I was speaking to an
official yesterday and they said what
China has done is they've woken up every
country around the world to not only the
power that China has to control these
things but the fact that China is
willing to use these things and I think
really that that cannot be put back in
the box. You know, China has opened a
parent box here. Everyone is going, you
know, countries like Japan, South Korea,
Australia, the US. You saw Donald Trump
agreeing critical minerals deals with
Malaysia and other countries in
Southeast Asia in his, you know, in the
last few days before he got to South
Korea. Every country around the world is
looking at the power that Chinese that
Beijing has to deny them access to these
goods and saying we don't like this. We
need to create our own supply chain to
to ameliate Chinese power, Chinese
control of these things. So even if
there is a delay, that is good for
companies. is that it's good for company
supply chains, that is good for your
ability to buy a car, uh if you want to
buy a car or whatever it is, but I think
the the the longerterm effects are going
to be countries and companies around the
world are going to double down or going
to start really trying to decouple their
supply chains for the you know, for rare
earth and for other critical minerals,
gallium, antimin, tungsten. They're
going to try and start really decoupling
their supply chains from China. So in
the end, this Chinese success, this
bargaining tool that they brought out
may actually turn out to be a long-term
loss for them.
>> Team, thank you so much. James Maker
there in Gyongju for us. Steven Engel,
our chief North Asia correspondent in
Busousan. And of course, my co-anchor is
also in Busousan. What you didn't see
overnight was this mad scramble to get
the team to Busousan following the
information that that is where the
meeting is taking place, not in the
former where James is. That's just a
side note. Just to note as well here,
this one taking place, Shinwa reporting
that Xi Jinping has arrived. There you
go. Air China has landed at the Busousan
at the Busousan airport. That's ahead of
scheduled talks. If things go to
schedule, we are looking at possibly a
meeting that begins in about 30 or so
minutes from now. We will bring you all
the latest once we have more
information. Uh in case you're just
joining us right now, a few minutes ago,
the US president also touched down there
at the airport in in Busousan. a few
minutes after that. The Chinese
president, his counterpart also just
landing there as well in in South Korea.
U we'll set that aside for now and once
we do have more vision as well coming
through there out of uh the airports, we
will bring them to you. In the meantime
though, the other story as well are
these markets. We're looking at a flat
open across mainland China. We are
reopening of course as it pertains to
Hong Kong markets. Nothing much
happening here. Flip the page please.
When you look at Hong Kong, we were
looking at an early weakness, but
there's been element of catch-up there
to consider. So, split the difference
and we are looking at some modest gains
across Hong Kong benchmarks going into
the session today. 7/10 of 1%. We talked
about how this is an extremely busy
earnings day. You saw all the headlines
coming through out of the big US tech
names a few hours ago. Uh we're looking
at about 150 companies uh or so coming
through. Uh just before that as well,
you have a lot of earnings reaction from
some companies already reporting
yesterday. You had a miss out of Tiani
and Ma Thai. Uh the other two gold
players also reported earnings, but I
would imagine that move you're seeing
there is on the back of the move in gold
price uh 3920
and change was the low of the session at
the open here in the Asia Pacific. So
some weakness coming through in bling
bling today. There's the number on your
screens. 50 plus Msei CH Msei China
companies set to report this Thursday.
Among those companies, BYYD
uh we are headed there for the longest
streak of monthly declines. Oh, how the
mighty have fallen on the share price
from near 160. We've been hovering and
hugging uh this 100 level more than my
mother ever did to me at least.
Investors are growing increasingly
skeptical about the company's ability to
fend off competition in China. Charlotte
Yang is with us under set to just give
us a sense of these earnings and what
investors are looking for for any signs
of a rebound. Charlotte,
>> yeah, so the stakes couldn't be higher
for BYD. Like you mentioned, it's now
set for the fifth month of decline. The
stock is over 30% from its May down from
its May peak. So there has already been
concerns, you know, from investors over
this domestic sales weakness for in
China because overseas still doing very
well and then you're looking at, you
know, peers from Gilly to Ali model
taking away some market shares. So the
company has sold over 1.1 million
vehicles in the three months end of
September. The figure looks good, but
that's actually 1.8% decline from last
year's level. And so analysts are
expecting sales to grow 7.6%. That's the
slowest quarter since the first quarter
of 2024.
So it could be really a mixed bag of
results. Margin could improve a bit
according to Morgan Stanley given that
they have give out few uh dealers
rebates. But what's really important for
investors is they're watching what in uh
BYO do in the last quarter the the
December quarter given in the past they
usually do aggressive price uh cuts to
to make sure that they meet that sales
target but this year the regulatory
environment is a little bit different
and also um so all eyes on whether they
could be able to achieve the already
reduced sales target of selling 4.6
million cars this year.
>> Yeah, I think a few weeks ago it was
already quite clear they weren't going
to make the original sales target,
right? So like the expectations have
already been ratcheted out. Looking at
the brighter side of things, financial
firms, there's a great piece on the
terminal today that talks about when you
look at the estimates for the financials
in China have outpaced the estimates or
the change in estimates of the benchmark
itself. What do we know about that?
>> Yeah, so sales set expectation has been
quietly building up for the Chinese
financial sector. Uh which the BI the
data they looked at is the Chinese
companies listed in the MSCI and
emerging markets index. The estimates
for the financial sector has um is 3.2%.
2% u for the quarter September quarter
versus the broad that's about nearly
doubling the the the figure they have
for the broader Chinese shares listing
that index and in the insurers are
really leading um the earnings upgrades
you're looking at um China life for
example nation's u biggest life insurer
by market share it's set to report as
much as 70% for the net income in the f
in the first nine months and a lot of
the drivers include um the investment in
the equity market which has been doing
really well this year and also um
expanding um um policy cells and uh for
the land nation's largest lenders uh
analysts are also expecting a brighter
outlook given that you know the margin
pressure could be easing some some of
the fee um income could be recovering so
for the financial sector that's and also
you know given that investors now
reassessing their risk into this big
meeting between Trump and she there's
talk of rotating out of some growth
stocks into those more defensive corner
of the market so if the fundamentals
turn out to be bad I think that could be
a really helpful for the shares.
>> Yeah, some of the dividend plays there.
Charlotte Yang, thank you so much.
Fantastic. There uh giving us a preview
what to expect from BYD and also the
broader cohort broader cohort of uh
financial uh financial companies. That's
just to say when you look at for example
to to Charlotte's point just now Msei
well Morgan Stanley should be rephrase
that Morgan Stanley uh and Laura Wang's
team actually came out with a very short
note they dropped in our inboxes and let
me bring Ivon in on that note a few
hours ago that talked about the
potential upside on MSEI China
specifically if we do get more progress
on these trade talks set to begin uh in
a couple of minutes from now between the
two presidents mid singledigit upside uh
on MSEI China is what is expected uh if
of course we do see uh more progress
there as far as trade uh talks go. It's
also worth pointing out, let me just
also mention some context there out of
Morgan Stanley and their call on the
Chinese market. Just a few weeks ago,
they said, you know what, don't buy the
dip just yet. There's a lot of
uncertainty there. Overweight AS shares
uh in the event, but we're looking at
potentially now. It does seem initial
signs. Ivonne are pointing to are
pointing to finally a watershed moment
between the two presidents. Uh Ivon, let
me bring you in there. The the Chinese
both presidents have now arrived of
course where you are.
Yes. So, we're expected to hear and see
at least those live pictures out of here
in Busousan of President Xi arriving
there. We did see that Air China flight
that did just land uh here at Gimme
International Airport. And certainly
this is coming at a time when of course
China has just talked about and released
this whole 14th five-year plan and
really the priority has been creating a
a very kind of manufacturing industrial
superpower that China aims to be and
almost taking second fiddle is the likes
of boosting consumption. Uh you could
also argue, you know, when it comes to
self-reliance that might be also taking
a bit of a step back because there seems
to be this reliance on exports to really
help boost growth. And this really goes
to show maybe what she wants entering
into these talks, right? If we're
talking about the the possibility of of
Nvidia being able to ship the Blackwell
AI processors, that could be a big thing
that China wants out of all these trade
talks here and maybe be willing to defer
those rare earth export curves by one
year as Scott Besson has suggested there
in Koala Lumpur. So, we're watching for
some of these sort of developments there
any sort of confirmation. Of course, as
as we mentioned with with Morgan
Stanley, they're saying, "Look, the the
la the fact that we're talking about
fentinel tariffs that might not be
priced in the lowering of those levies
there in the market." It might be a bit
of surprise for investors out there, but
certainly we are waiting. There you go,
the China flag. That's the air China
flight there. And we're waiting, of
course, President Xi to step down there
on the tarmac. Uh there's going to be a
lot coming up here. Of course, we'll
bring you those live pictures. Those
talks are just about 15 minutes away.
And then of course we're expected to
hear from President Xi at the APEC
summit this there in the leader summit
which does begin of course this weekend.
That's still the main event here at the
end of the day.
>> Yeah. I mean I'm just doing a time check
now. 44 minutes into the show so far and
how do you think we've done in as far as
fitting everything into those 44 minutes
or so? Everything from the Fed this
meeting taking place this meeting
suddenly that's taking place in
Busousan. We've had to scramble the team
uh from the initial locations yesterday
into where they are right now.
Fantastically positioned ahead of this
big meeting taking place. A ton of
earnings out of the US. A ton of
earnings coming through out of mainland
China. As we await the meeting uh and
the uh we're just looking at Air China
of course just landing there in Busousan
a few minutes ago and the uh Chinese
president to disembark. Just to
summarize some of the initial diplomatic
wins that we could see based on
signaling mostly from the US side, not
exclusively. Let me just go through this
list. Um the readying potentially
readying this agreement that could
include that could include let me let me
emphasize that word could include a roll
back of some tariffs, fees and export
restrictions
uh tied to fentinil. That's point one.
Point two, the approval of the sale of
the US operations of Tik Tok. Number
two, soybean purchases. We did see that
and our reporting yesterday suggested
the Chinese started to purchase the
first known purchase of US soybeans this
season and a deal number four that could
halt the measures uh including China's
sweeping plan of uh requiring licenses
for critical materials. On top of that,
on top of that reason, perhaps you also
saw that massive move in Nvidia
overnight potentially Blackwell, the
Blackwell chip. In what capacity and to
what extent, in what version to be made
available to the Chinese market? Let's
bring in Steven Angel of course who's
with us as well out of Busousan. Steve,
let me bring you in here. U in the last,
let's call it 15 minutes or so, both
presidents have landed in Busousan where
you guys are. Set the stage for us. How
big are these stocks going to be?
>> Well, the fact that we have this big
presence here indicates the world is
watching what is happening here. As you
can see, uh the 747 of Air China that
Xiinping flies in. The door is opening
up. We're likely to see obviously
Xiinping come down those stairs uh and
then towards the building where Donald
Trump arrived within the last half hour
as well. He flew in from Gyongju aboard
Marine 1 and of course Xiinping just
arriving at the APEC gatherings on his
747. So this will be the last unless
something happens uh you know in with
with North Korea and Kim Jong-un which
doesn't look like it's going to happen
but this will be Donald Trump's last
meeting and Xiinping's first meeting of
APE. two ships passing in the night, but
they're going to be getting down to the
details of course of these um framework
agreement that was agreed upon in
Malaysia on that whole host of issues
that you just mentioned. There are a lot
of subtexts as well. There could be of
course a relaxation of the United States
entity list that has been expanded uh to
include affiliates of companies that
have put been put on this uh list. Uh so
again there there are many different
levers uh that can still be moved uh
between these two gentlemen as they
formalized uh a a day. Do we want to go
that far to say this is a repromon for
sure, but how far will this be a bit of
a lasting coexistence
uh without the spectre of increased
tariffs or increased retaliation in the
form of export controls uh the leverage
the newfound leverage that the Chinese
have found whether it's soybeans or
obviously these critical minerals uh
again the signings might be a trade
agreement there might be a tick tok talk
agreement that they signed. Uh there
might be a number of other things that
they actually put pen to paper, but
we're going to have to wait and see how
long they talk and how formal they talk
and how uh in detail they will be
discussing these issues that we've been
talking about. Now, on the side of all
this is Donald Trump is coming here is
here in Korea with a victory essentially
goodwill with Japan and that trade
agreement that they agreed to. And then
last night, you know, I woke up to that
message saying Donald Trump has come to
agreement with his counterpart in South
Korea for a trade agreement with South
Korea that would lower the overall
tariff rate down to 15% from 25% uh
including a $350 billion investment fund
into the United States. 50 billion of
that for ship building and also an
agreement essentially uh for the United
States to sell the nuclear fuel needed
for South Koreanmade
nuclearpowered submarines that possibly
could be made in a Philadelphia
shipyard. So there's a lot a lot of side
deals and components uh that Donald
Trump wants to get signed, get back on
Air Force One, back to Washington and
claim victory.
Fantastic, Steve. Thank you so much.
We'll be back with Steve in a couple of
minutes,
>> right? Yeah.
>> Ivonne, go ahead. Sorry. Go ahead.
>> No, I was just going to say there there
has been that momentum, right, as as we
wrap up, you know, Trump's trip. He
certainly has been wanting to make deals
with this part of the region. We saw
that in Azion. We saw that in Japan. We
saw that even with the South Koreans,
which Steve mentioned here. I think that
was a bit of surprise that that deal was
finalized with Lie Jay Mun. I think
leading up to it uh there was some
skepticism that we could be able to
actually iron out some of these details
as well. So the fact that we actually
got those autotariffs for South Korea
lowered to 15%. Uh keeping that clear of
you know equal footing with the likes of
the Japanese and the Europeans I think
that is going to be a big sort of
breakthrough for South Korea. We've seen
some of these car makers already
reacting quite positively uh in the
market here today and the whole idea is
that there has been some clarity about
that structure of this investment pledge
right we talked about even with Japan
you're talking about hundreds of
billions of dollars of US investment
pledges uh that up until now I think we
were not getting that much clarity of
how this was all going to be funded and
how this was only going to be funneled.
So this is certainly going to be a bit
more clarity. We'll see you know what we
can get in the Chinese side of things.
uh because it seems like there is that
momentum behind President Trump's back.
I wonder with shei coming through here
fresh as you mentioned this is his first
meeting at APE does that give him a bit
more of a oomph I guess in these
negotiations uh certainly here when you
talk about what's at stake though I
think both sides still are looking what
you hear from the rhetoric leading up to
this both sides have had very friendly
vibes to bring down the temperature but
as we say it's been months of escalate
and deescalate and markets are certainly
seemingly getting used to it Oh,
>> they really have, which I guess also
begs the question now to what extent um
is there actually market catalyst. Um
any positive offscript catalyst from the
US side, some offscript comments
potentially from the US president that
could actually bolster uh the trade deal
even further or the market move on a
trade conversation is concerned. Uh just
to recap the events in the last few
minutes or so. I'm just looking at my
screens here right now just to get a
sense of what's going on on the ground.
Uh we so about 30 minutes back the US
president did just land of course in
Busousan. A few moments ago you might
have caught a very short glimpse of
Chinese President Xi Jinping emerging uh
uh emerging from their aircraft. Uh the
red carpet had been rolled out.
President Xi had emerged from the plane.
I imagine he might now be on routes. I'm
speculating based on the timeline right
now into of course that meeting uh with
US President Donald Donald Trump. Just
to also reiterate some of the commentary
that's come through on the initial
planning. A lot of the things that we've
heard so far have come from the US side.
Very little not exclusively from the US
and very little as far as what the
Chinese uh Chinese side is is has put
out as well. All that is to say, all
that is to say some of the gestures have
startedly have certainly begun. US purch
Chinese purchases of US soybeans for
example, our reporting yesterday uh do
does suggest that there is some activity
uh I in that direction. The other thing
I do want to point out as well and
interestingly,
not in a vacuum, not in a vacuum, in the
last hour or so, a a truth social post
coming out of the US president, he has
instructed the Department of War to
start testing nuclear weapons. Is that a
flex ahead of this meeting? Who knows?
uh just to just to mention of course
what's taking place there given the
context, the commentary, the positioning
uh and the digging into certain
positions going into this meeting. There
we go. I believe that is the car that is
carrying the Chinese president Xiinping.
Let me bring in Ivon who's there with us
in Busousan. Uh Ivon, what else is on
your mind today? What else are you
hearing there on the ground?
>> Well, obviously we're waiting of course
uh for President Xi there. There is his
car taking him into the airport now
where President Trump is waiting for
him. So the fact that Trump arrived
early uh is certainly a good sign and
the fact that President Xi also arrived
early ahead of these talks uh is a good
sign. I think when it comes to some of
these export curves whether we see that
watering down is going to be very very
crucial here. And whether this freezing
potential freezing does it just mean
tech export curves or are we talking
about also [music] sectoral tariffs? We
got to talk a little bit more about that
as well coming up. But there you go.
We'll bring you the latest here [music]
from Busousan. Coming up, you're
watching the China Show.
[music]
Welcome back. You're watching the China
Show. We're [music] entering the second
hour of the program. On the left side of
your screens are live pictures out of
Busousan where the two presidents have
already landed and are set to meet. Uh
and we are, this is an understatement,
the next 60 minutes is pregnant with
possibility.
uh in as far as what to what extent and
what the details are that could emerge
there from that meeting uh between the
two presidents. We've been waiting for
this moment for several months now
following liberation day, that tit for
attack, that back and forth, that
reaceleration deceleration of of tariffs
on both sides. Markets have gotten used
to this to some extent. They've rallied
quite substantially. There was the AI
play that helped. there was the the dant
and the cooling of the temperatures on
both sides going into this meeting
today. Um so to underscore hope is also
uh quite an understatement looking at
these markets half of 1% to the upside
and the hanging index reopening today.
Uh there's also a fed story to tell you
about in an earnings story very quickly
equity markets across the region started
off on very slow footing. We are now
mostly to the upside as you can see on
your screens. Volumes are flat though. I
would imagine given the fact that there
still is a bit of event risk, this wall
of event risk out there. Uh what is
playing through quite clearly though is
the Fed part of the conversation with
Jay Powell pulling back expectations.
The Fed a Fed cuts in December is not a
done deal. U and I'm sort of phrasing
that more diplomatically as well. Uh the
10-year yield is now clear of 4%, six,
seven basis points to the upside. And as
you can see, Asia Pacific, it's doing a
bit of catch-up there. that's ahead of
some other key events in the form of the
BOJ could come this hour and the ECB
later today. In the meantime, we'll set
the stories aside for now and bring in
our team in Busousan where President
Trump and President Xi are now set to
meet. Our chief North Asia correspondent
Steven Angel and of course my co-anchor
Ivon Man is also there on the ground.
Steve, let me bring you in. Set the
stage for us, Steve.
Yeah. So, there was a little bit of a
kurfuffle here because a number of
different black vans uh just left the
marine base or the air mobility base of
uh the Republic of Korea. Thought
thinking maybe uh they're on the move to
a different location. But uh from all we
can tell, the two gentlemen, Xiinping
and Donald Trump are still in the
buildings behind me at the military side
of the Kimh airport here in Busousan. Uh
really this is the culmination of months
of turmoil and chaos in global markets
as well as global trade no doubt. Was
this the culmination and the end to the
sort of the the the method of the
madness if you will? Uh because again
there was lots of posturing. We've been
talking about both sides finding
different levers to pull and use and
China found its strength in critical
minerals and magnets and soybeans and
the like. uh the US used a lot of its
pull on the advanced chips. Could there
be relaxation? According to the
framework agreement reached by Scott
Bessant and Howard Lutnik and Jameson
Greer, uh with their counterparts across
the table, including Lily Funk, the vice
premier is that yes, there is wiggle
room on both sides. these two gentlemen
now will sort of put the conclusion to
this chapter uh since liberation day
that sent all the chaos. Maybe it was
the plan all along to ratchet up the
pressure on key trading partners
including Japan, including South Korea,
but most notably China only to reach
this point in time right now. And that's
why we're all here. That's why we're all
waiting to see how long a lasting truce
these two gentlemen can reach between
China and the United States and prevent
an outright decoupling and a bifurc
further bifurcation of the global market
into pro- US block, pro-China block and
then everything else in between and the
uncertainty that uh entails from that.
So, we're here waiting to see what the
two gentlemen uh say following their
closed door meeting uh that is happening
right now in the buildings behind me.
>> And you're looking at those live
pictures right now inside the
International Airport. As you see, the
American and Chinese flags are up. It
looks like it's a bit of a frenzy there
inside that room to get the leaders
together, get the delegation seated at
the table. So, uh, we're we're watching
it all unfold here on the China show and
and certainly as Steve mentioned, right,
the the different negotiating tools that
we've seen, whether it is when it comes
to export curves around software from
the US, whether it's rare earths and
soybeans from the Chinese, these have
been the longunning sticking points that
I think if we get a bit clarity today,
that could be new developments here,
right? If we get fentinel, if we get
soybeans, we've talked about that could
be quick sort of issues that could be
resolved. But if the export curb side of
things, these are the thorniest issues
that need to be ironed out and maybe it
will be seen as developments for the
market, Steve. But a lot could happen,
Steve. What What do you think could go
wrong in these talks today?
Well, what could go wrong is that the
goodwill that has been built up over
five rounds of talks, whether it was in
Geneva, London or Koala Lumpur and
elsewhere, unfolds for for whatever
reason. Uh maybe expectations that
Donald Trump has telegraphed so openly
to the media and in the leadup to this
meeting, whereas the Chinese side has
been fairly quiet, Xiinping has been
fairly quiet, uh comparatively. So
perhaps things could unwind if he does
not get the reception from Xiinping that
he is expecting. Now again that's all
speculation and I don't think that that
would happen. These two gentlemen would
not meet here in South Korea unless the
deliverables for both parties are
already pretty much confirmed. Now one
good indication again we don't get
regular press conferences from Xiinping.
We don't get regular uh communicates
from the Beijing government. We get a
lot of the tea leaf reading through
state media and what the other organs in
of power in China are projecting. And
more recently, we've seen in Beijing
state media and officials talking about
glowing comments about Donald Trump and
Xiinping
>> team. Fantastic. Steve, keep warm. We'll
be back with you in a couple of minutes.
Steven Angel of course there uh in
Busousan for us. We'll take you straight
back now to our other big coverage
today. The Barclays Asia Forum in
Singapore has Linda, my co-anchor of
course is there with her next guest Haz.
>> That's right. Howard Marx, co-founder
and co-chairman at Oak Tree Capital
Management. Good to have you with us.
We've been keeping an eye a close watch
on the US China trade deal. I mean, is
that a gamecher?
>> Well, it it is potentially a gamecher.
Uh, of course, you're speaking with
someone who's no expert on foreign
affairs.
But I think we all
>> evidence of the impact on investor
sentiment.
>> Well, it can have a profound impact. I
just don't know what.
>> Well, we've been seeing a lot of
posturing. President Trump talking
about, you know, a deal is coming. He's
looking for a complete deal. How much of
that has already been priced in? I mean,
we've seen such a run up in markets
already.
>> Well, we we know that there are
developments. We know the market rises.
We can't attribute what percentage of
the market rise, but we're in a we've
been in a very optimistic environment
for the last 36 months. And certainly
the idea that that uh that President
Trump can do some positive things on the
world stage is is part of that. But I
think that nobody knows what an
agreement would look like. Uh the
probability that will be reached, the
probability it'll be documented, the
probability that it'll stuck to, what
what the impact will be. Uh uh I just
you know everybody in our business loves
to have forecasts but they should
question the expertise of the forecaster
>> and always wonder about the probability
that it's right or wrong.
>> We don't we don't invest on on macro.
We're not going to change our posture
because we do or don't believe that
President Trump is going to make a deal
with she.
>> So you're investing based on and based
on that where are you putting your
money? Has anything changed? We're we're
what's called bottomup investors. We're
mostly credit investors. So only one
thing matters. If we lend the company
money, will they pay us back? And uh and
the promised interest. And that is not
done with regard to the outlook for uh
trade relations, the outlook for the uh
for what the Fed is going to do uh
yesterday or to tomorrow on rates. Uh
it's a different brand of investing.
Bottom up. But relations between the US
and China has been a key question mark
for the market. Surely a step in the
right direction would give people more
appetite more to be risk on. That's a
fair assumption.
>> Well, I mean I I if we could attain a
mutually beneficial
in
Howard, hang tight because we have
developments uh in Korea. Ivonne, go
ahead.
Yep. We're taking a look at live
pictures out of Busousan now. The two
leaders just had that first handshake.
Uh these two obviously have not seen
each other for for a few years now. I
believe 2019 was the last time they met.
So this is the first meeting since
President Trump returned to the White
House for that second term. And we talk
about how trade war 1.0 is very
different from trade war 2.0 0 when it
comes to these two nations now because
right now there's so much more at stake
and China seems to be coming through
with much more I guess you could say
leverage that they've been able to use
negotiating tools like soybeans like
rare earth in this latest salvo of this
trade war. So there you go the two men
uh hunkering down heading into that room
right now you're seeing a flurry of
reporters and David I think uh it was
quite telling them it was it seemed to
be a pretty friendly handshake there.
just looking at those live pictures.
>> It was it was and I think some of the
some of the comments that came through
not sure if the audio we were actually
able to take the audio uh so our viewers
could actually hear them. Some of the
comments coming through out of the US
president specifically he looked to be
the one uh uh talking uh in that again
I'm still trying to get my wrapping my
head around that that that image we just
saw. like my my brain is just not used
to seeing uh the two presidents that
close in in one location. Uh Donald
Trump says that uh Xi Jinping is a tough
negotiator that he could sign a trade
deal today. They have a great
relationship and that they have just
finished of course that initial
handshake, that photo op. And in case
you're joining us quite literally just
now, they actually just slipped in
towards the back of the room to enter
this bilateral meeting, which I imagine
should be uh should be starting any any
moment now. And I promise you, we'll get
you more pictures and updates coming
through once we have more information
from that historic meeting taking place
there in Busousan. from Korea. We'll
take you straight back now to Singapore
where Hus Linda Amin of course our
inside co-anchor is with her guest has
apologies for interrupting there your
conversation with Howard Mark.
>> Well that's right and Howard
and and Howard you know we have the two
leaders shaking hands lots of things on
the table fantel soybeans including
blackwell chips as well and we've seen
how those [clears throat] uh you know AI
stocks have been rallying in a massive
way it's not a bubble you say
>> well I mean it's
It's I'm not saying that it hasn't been
tinged with optimism. We we've been in a
very strong market. This has been the
tent pole of the optimism. Uh nobody
would say that these stocks haven't
moved or that they're cheap. The
question is, do they have more left?
It's extremely interesting to be sitting
in your studio and doing this in real
time while while this may be coming to
fruition. uh but you know if
[clears throat] there is a positive deal
and I assume that there will be some
deal announced that's why they're
standing around smiling at each other
otherwise they wouldn't be. Um
[laughter]
uh it's not like it's going to change
the investment environment from hostile
to positive. It's not like it's going to
turn people from pessimistic to
optimism. It's already been a very
positive environment changing with great
optimism and this may add to it a little
bit. Um but you know we should look at
the fine print and figure out uh you
know whether it's really mutually
beneficial and whether we think it can
endure and and whether it can solve the
problems that we have.
>> But regardless of the details the optics
are positive that gives the AI rally yet
another leg up. But I try not to care
too much about the optics. What I care
about is the substance and you know will
this make companies better companies?
Will this enhance their probability of
paying their debts? Will it this will
this uh add to the profitability of
companies? Uh that's a lot different
from the optics of of uh two world
leaders shaking hands.
>> So would you be an investor in open AI?
It talks about filing next year. It
talks about an IPO in 27. This is a
company that's still not making money.
Well, and that that uh what you just
said captures the whole question today.
Now, you asked would I Oak Tree is a
credit investor. We don't and and and
things like Open AI are not financed
with loans largely because they're not
bankable. They don't make money. So,
they can't borrow money. Uh if people
buy pieces of the company in the hope
that those pieces will become much more
valued. But, as you asked earlier,
>> Howard, I'm sorry, we have to leave it
there. More developments in Korea.
David, go ahead.
>> All right. Yes. Okay. This is really
where uh one would hope many more
screens just to balance out the massive
news flow coming through. There we go.
What? What a visual.
Just let that sink in for the moment.
Right now, this uh so we're now looking
at this bilateral meeting which I
imagine should be starting uh any time
now. Of course, the Chinese side on the
left, the American side on the right,
Chinese President Xi Jinping uh in in in
that suit of course in the blue and of
course now speaking is Donald Trump, the
US president. Let's listen in
>> a lot of things and we'll agree to some
more right now. Uh but uh President Xi
is a great leader of a great country and
I think we're going to have a fantastic
relationship for a long period of time
and it's an honor to have you with us.
Thank you very much.
Thank you,
>> President Trump. It is a great pleasure
for me as well to meet you
>> and it feels very warm seeing you again
because it's been many years
>> since your re-election.
We have spoken on the phone three times,
exchanged several letters
and stayed in close contact
and our joint guidance. China US
relations have remained stable on the
whole.
Given our different national conditions,
we do not always see eye to eye with
each other. And it is normal
for the two leading economies of the
world to have frictions now and then.
And in the face of winds, waves and
challenges, you and I at the helm of
China US relations should stay the right
course
and ensure the steady sailing forward of
the giant ship of China US relations. I
always believe that China's development
goes hand in hand with your vision to
make America great again.
>> Our two countries are fully able to help
each other succeed and prosper together.
Over the years, I have stated in public
many times that China and the United
States should be partners and friends.
This is what history has taught us and
what reality knee demands.
A few days ago, in a latest round of
consultation,
our two economic and trade teams reached
basic consensus on addressing our
respective major concerns and made
encouraging progress. This provided the
necessary conditions for our meeting
today.
Mr. President, I'm ready to continue
working with you to build a solid
foundation for China US relations
and create a sound atmosphere for the
development of both countries.
Mr. President, you care a lot about
world peace
>> and you are very enthusiastic about
settling various regional hotspot
issues.
I appreciate your great contribution to
the recent conclusion of the Gaza
ceasefire agreement. During your visit
to Malaysia, you witnessed the signing
of the joint declaration on peace along
the Cambodia Thailand border
to which you had provided input.
China's been helping in our own way
Cambodia and Thailand properly settle
their border disputes
and we have also been promoting peace
talks to resolve other hotspot issues.
The world today is confronted with many
tough problems. China and US can jointly
shoulder our responsibility as major
countries and work together to
accomplish more
great and concrete things for the good
of our two countries and the whole
world. I look forward to exchanging
views with you on questions important
for our two countries and the world.
Thank you.
>> Thank you. Thank you very much. It's
great to have you all. Thank you very
much.
Mr. President, why did you change your
nuclear plans? Why are you going to be
doing new more new more nuclear testing?
>> Thank you very much everybody.
>> Thank you very much.
>> Thank youress.
>> Okay, we're heading out.
>> Thank you. Let's go to
>> Okay.
over there.
>> All right, there you go. You are seeing
uh the reporters and of course the
cameras there. Uh now it looks like
according to Trump, they're being told
to kind of leave the room as they start
these talks now. But you did hear sort
of the opening sort of remarks from both
sides. And from President Trump
obviously saying that he hopes that they
could have a good trade deal. Uh and
from President Xi's side, the one thing
I I saw was a takeaway here is is that
it is still uh pretty upbeat. He hopes
that China US he says he should be
partners and friends. We don't always
see eye to eye but he says it is normal
and what he really want to talk about is
really they want to have the sound
atmosphere for the development of both
nations. So it seems like the rhetoric
is still very positive as we go into
these negotiations and he did kind of
end his remarks she on really you know
really applauding Trump when it comes to
his efforts for world peace. He
mentioned about uh Trump and his efforts
when it comes to Gaza for example. He
mentioned when he was in Azan and he was
able to was there in the signing of this
sort of peace declaration between
Thailand and Cambodia. So there was that
aspect that was uh brought in as well.
But it seems like Steve I don't know how
you interpreted it but it seems like it
was very positive signals from both
sides here today.
Yeah, absolutely. And I think the world
peace element that Xiinping brought up
is something that Donald Trump was
hoping he'd bring bring up, of course,
because clearly Donald Trump has been on
a campaign, if you will, to at least get
consideration for uh the Nobel Peace
Prize, which he didn't get. Uh but is
also something, of course, the uh new
prime minister of Japan, uh Takian did
mention that she would support that
candidacy. It goes beyond really what
we're here for to cover she and Trump.
And I I I do agree with you is that some
of the Xiinping's comments were quite
telling that it is normal uh for there
to be friction between uh the two
biggest economies in the world. They
don't always have to see eye to eye, but
they do need to have consistent
communication uh going forward. And and
that's something that struck stood out
to me as well. the beginning parts of
Xiinping's comments, he said, "We have
spoken three times over the phone. We've
exchanged letters. We've been in quote
unquote close contact." So, that is
something you know that we've been
building up over the last uh you know 9
10 months of this administration is that
these two gentlemen have not met in
person until right now. But again,
Xiinping emphasized they have been in
close contact even though both sides
have been building up leverage.
Steve, we'll be back with you in a
couple of minutes there. Yes, that was a
very positive start to the beating from
both sides, the tone, uh the choice of
words, how they said it to each other
and it really just underscores the
importance of this this relationship for
the world, for businesses, for markets,
uh for world peace when you think about
it that the fact that they started with
that on the Chinese side of things. Uh
it's also worth pointing out the market
is taking this one well. If you look at
the proxy of dollar China for example as
that meeting was starting as those
positive lines were coming through
dollar China on the way down. Uh so
we're looking at some strength coming
through in the Chinese currency maybe as
a vote early vote of confidence that
these talks seem to be getting started
uh on the right foot on on on fairly
solid footing. That's just to say as
well it's worth pointing out that the
comments coming through out of Chinese
president Xi Jinping when he mentioned
that friction is is natural right so
that is something that market should be
should get used to the fact that both
sides are talking and they acknowledge
the fact that moving forward short
medium longer term there will be points
of disagreement it's healthy to see when
you look at that both sides being able
to at least talk things out. We'll get
you the latest once we have more
information coming through out of that
meeting that is right now ongoing in
Busousan. We'll take you straight back
now to Singapore. Hassa Amen. Our our
co-anchor of course is standing by there
at the Barclays Asia Forum. Haz
that's right Dave it is all about the
optics and the optics are looking
fantastic. Couldn't be better. Let's get
inside. Le Bernard former Fed Reserve
vice chair is with me. It is true isn't
it? the optics couldn't be better and
the trickle effect in the markets and
how this might play out and how might
the Fed be looking at it.
>> Absolutely. Well, I think it is
important that uh the president went
into this meeting with President Xi
coming off several uh very positive
meetings uh in Japan with uh South Korea
in particular came in I think from a
position of strength of course. Uh now
the questions are exactly what does this
deal look like? But I think it was
important for both leaders to have that
sitdown meeting. Uh and that in itself
was an accomplishment.
>> We know that that's been a successful
framework that came out of Malaysia
between the two top negotiators. What's
front and center right now is actually
those black well chips. It has national
security concerns uh tied to that. What
are your own thoughts on that?
>> Look, I think that is an area of
significant concern and controversy,
especially for people who are focused on
national security. It really goes to uh
the US ability to maintain its lead. And
of course, the one biggest area of
advantage for the United States is
advanced chips. It has not been the
tradition to put national security
export controls on the table as part of
trade negotiations. And so for many this
uh raises some uh concerns.
>> Are you then saying that Blackwell chips
shouldn't be part of negotiations today?
Well, I think export controls should not
be part of trade negotiations
and uh so I don't know what the outcome
there is, but certainly I think people
who look to the US lead uh on uh gen uh
the uh AI and particular the race for
AGI will think of putting those export
controls on the table as a real concern.
>> If we see a deal today, what
implications are there on the US
economy? and inflation.
>> So I think generally speaking getting
some certainty around the level of
tariffs on uh China is important for
businesses to know how to adjust their
supply chains and taking those threats
of very very high tariffs off the table
will help businesses uh make those
adjustments. I think for the US economy
overall the level of uncertainty had
already diminished and so you already
see uh that the equity markets in
particular are going gang busters um and
generally we saw an upgrade uh to growth
in the second quarter and expectations
are that third quarter growth will be
quite uh similar to second quarter.
>> You can only imagine that uh chair
Powell is looking at developments uh in
Korea very closely. He cut rates 25
basis points. He pushed back on a
possibility um of a December rate cut
because it's wait and see. It's data
dependent and there's no clarity right
now, especially given the uh government
shutdown. Did he make the right move?
Well, certainly he followed through on
the rate cut in October that was
essentially promised in September, but
then held the line and I think that was
reflecting what he called, you know, a
very uh big diversity of views in the
room. Of course, we saw that in
September with nine of 19 participants
uh showing that they wanted to hold the
line at two cuts or fewer. And so he
alluded to the diversity of views around
the table. We saw a descent both on the
hawkish side uh and the dovish side this
time. And so going into December, he has
a lot more challenges in terms of
managing his committee if he does want
to guide towards an additional cut in
December.
>> Dr. Brinard, is there a new inflation
target now? I mean, they've been looking
at 2% for a very long time. That is not
even close to being achieved. Is 3% it?
Well, it is true that inflation now has
been running well above 2% uh for the
past four years. It's at 3%. It is going
in the wrong direction. And the
projections the committee put out in
September didn't have inflation
returning to 2% until 2028. So that's I
think why we're seeing the hawks on the
committee digging in a little bit. The
Fed has been committed to a 2% target, I
think, for keeping inflation
expectations anchored. It is absolutely
critical that they show their resolve to
get inflation back to 2%. Never mind
that we're talking about those uh trade
talks and a possibility of a trade deal
today or tomorrow for that matter.
Trajectory when it comes to the
trajectory of the terrorists, that's
inflationary. Might that eventually play
out in 2026? might we see inflation at
4%. Is that a possibility at all?
>> It seems very unlikely. It does seem
that a lot of businesses have
prepositioned. So they softened the
impact of the tariffs. It gave them time
to adjust supply chains and it does seem
that the impact of the tariffs is
working its way into the price level
gradually. Um, so I do believe that we
will see uh somewhat higher inflation
than we would have otherwise, but I
don't expect it to get to 4% or higher.
Fed independence is the other thing that
markets are focused on. When you take a
look at the five shortlisted men to take
over from uh Jerome Powell, are you
still concerned about Fed independence?
So I am concerned very much about Fed
independence and that is because uh this
White House has done unprecedented
things that really do undermine
potentially undermine the independence
of the Federal Reserve and in particular
while presidents always want lower rates
and always uh many presidents not all
talk about wanting lower rates, nobody
has ever uh announced that they're
firing a board governor unprecedented
without any due process. and uh also put
a member on the board of governors who
remains on the staff of the executive
office of the president. Those are
unprecedented. I think everybody should
be worried about uh Fed independence.
>> So when you take a look at the five
possible candidates, I mean is there a
sense that you know they they could
counter the pressure from the
government? So I think all the people
that I'm aware of uh that uh are on that
list highly qualified but the real
question is how independent can they be
of the president and that will be very
important for investor perceptions and
public confidence in low inflation.
>> Dr. Bernard, we have to leave it there.
We have to get back to Korea for
developments day. Of course we've been
speaking with Leel Bernard. I'm sorry.
Lel Brenard, former Federal Reserve vice
chair and former White House uh uh from
the White House. Dave, uh council
director.
>> Yeah, National Economic Council
Director. Fantastic. H, thank you so
much uh for that. As H was just
underscoring there this flurry of news
and this battling for airtime uh on many
of the major market themes today,
monetary policy. We'll get to that.
There's a massive earnings story as
well. I'm going to go through very very
quickly. Um give me 45 seconds. Let's
see if we can do it. Samsung out with a
breakdown of their earnings on your
screen, 3% over in Soul. Uh quite some
decent numbers coming through. Um good
commentary as it pertains to them
considering increasing uh the capacity
uh HB1 chips. That's point number one on
Samsung. Let's flip the page, please.
Lionus is not so much an earnings story.
It's not so much a stock move story but
really commentary on the big themes on
rare earths for example and the lack of
China tech they will be a challenge for
new suppliers that's coming out out of
line as rare earths in in Sydney uh
major rate decisions so far we're done
with the Fed we're done with the Bank of
Canada coming up possibly this hour will
be the BOJ dollar yen 15249 the euro is
trading at just a touch above 11615
right now and just on your screens very
very quickly we talked about the Fed
we're done December It's not a done
deal. Canada's done. We've seen a cut
there. Coming through in the next few
minutes is the BOJ. And speaking of the
BOJ, guess who's joining us in the next
couple of minutes or so? Haru Koda is
joining us. Linda, of course, there on
set. So, we have a stellar lineup of
guests continue our coverage there. And
of course, the ECB is coming through
later today. Back to our other top story
today in South Korea. Our team on the
ground there. My co-anchor Ivonne is uh
in Busousan for us this morning. Ivonne.
Yep. So, those talks have begun, of
course, and we just heard, if you're
just joining in to the program right
now, the initial kind of opening remarks
from both sides, from President Trump
and President Xi, both in terms of just
the tone and optics was looking very
positive heading to these negotiations.
And we're focusing a little bit more on
on the opening remarks from President Xi
in particular here. And what we were
just talking about, uh, he says, "It
feels very warm seeing you again." This
is she to Trump. It's been many years
since your re-election. They've spoken
on the phone three times. They've
written letters to each other and stayed
in close contact. That certainly is
something that was a good color there.
Uh but really just talking about how
both nations in some ways do need each
other. Right. The one thing that I
thought that caught my eye was that uh
he says that USChina relations have
remained stable on the whole. We do not
see eye to eye at times, but he says
this is normal. This friction is normal.
But when it comes to this, he says, "I
always believe that China's development
goes hand inhand with your vision to
make America great again." So, you know,
it doesn't sound like these two are
heading into decoupling or whatnot.
Steve, you know, certainly we're we're
in the thick of it right now. These
negotiations are underway. The press has
been shuttled outside. What do we have
to look for next?
>> Yeah, but I just want to pick up on what
you just said. I agree with you
completely. Uh and those comments from
Xiinping were not just off-the-cuff
casual comments. Those were very
strategic in the sense that uh the
Chinese are regarded as an equal power
to the United States, the world's two
biggest economies, the two biggest
superpowers. Uh there is going to be
friction from time to time. That is
normal. Uh but again what we've heard
over the last tumultuous six months as
the two sides following liberation day
and the tariff barrage around the world
in particular with on China is that the
United States has been bullying uh China
and that China simply wants to be
regarded as an equal on equal footing as
the United States and they reject any
kind of bullying. So I think the message
coming from Xiinping here as he sits
across the table from uh Donald Trump as
an equal partner here that it's normal
to have friction when you are an equal
uh competitor and I think that's the
kind of respect that Xiinping wanted to
get assurances of before he flew from
China to come here and meet with Donald
Trump and it is something I think Donald
Trump gave Xiinping as well that kind of
respect. He says, "We're going to have a
great relationship." This is Donald
Trump. We're going to have a great
relationship for a long time. But the
last 6 months, yes, they haven't met in
6 years, but the last 6 months have been
tumultuous uh without a doubt. So maybe
uh that was a lot of posturing from both
sides, but again, right now they're
saying the right things. Now they need
to put that into action and into policy.
and then it trickles down to the various
bureaucracies in both countries to act
on this goodwill.
>> Yeah, he did say also though that she is
a tough negotiator, right? And we
certainly have seen uh how China hasn't
raised the stakes here when it comes to
rare earths and really using this as
leverage uh up until now and certainly
that is going to be a key question of
what what will be achieved in this
meeting in terms of maybe
>> I mean it's deferring these sort of
export curbs that you know basically uh
taking a page from the US when it cames
to export curbs around chips software
for example as well we are going to
bring you some comments what we heard uh
from President Trump earlier you're on.
Let's listen in.
>> We will be having some discussions. I
think we've already agreed to a lot of
things and uh we'll agree to some more
right now. Uh but uh President Xi is a
great leader of a great country and I
think we're going to have a fantastic
relationship for a long period of time.
Yeah, the just some scenes there for our
viewers who are just joining us that
just taking place in the last uh 30
minutes or so initial opening remarks uh
from the US President Donald Trump. And
of course, we'll get you more details
coming through out of what uh out of out
of Chinese President Xi Jinping. But
Steve, let me let me bring you back in
because the so as I was watching that as
I was watching that big picture context,
right? In my head, I'm going to use the
a very imperfect analogy of, you know,
we were we're effectively looking at two
superpowers and, you know, the critics
and if you lean on the pessimistic side
of things, you look at this as a as a
process of a divorce. What just took
place just now, let me just rephrase how
my my my thinking just shifted a little
bit just based on the initial tone was
this is not so much two sides learning
and accepting the reality of a divorce.
These are two sides accepting the
reality that they will need to coexist
peacefully while being able to disagree
on many points here and into the future.
Steve, Steve, is that the sense you get
that we are entering, albeit very short,
period of stability of relations between
the two sides, Steve?
>> Well, you know, past administrations uh
both in China and the United States have
used what they used to call strategic
and economic dialogues to manage these
kind of differences before they boil uh
before they get to the boiling point as
we have over the last 6 months and there
hasn't been a lot of dialogue. Yes,
Xiinping says they've spoken on the
phone three times. They've written
letters to each other. They've stayed in
constant contact, but it's culminated
through the pandemic and through now the
last 6 months of a trade war of a bit of
icing to use a hockey terminology
between the two sides and then lots of
speculation in the media and the various
ministries as well jockeying for
leverage that has built up this kind of
friction that they're in a trade war.
Now I agree with what your previous
guest Leil Brainer had to say. This
meeting brings some certainty to
businesses that can plan now on supply
chain certainty better than say 24 hours
ago.
>> Steve, thank you. Stephen Angel, we'll
be back with him of course on the ground
there in in Busousan. Our subscribers
can also turn to your terminal for more
on the story. T Live Viggo is our
ongoing blog uh on all the commentary
that's come through, updates,
commentary, analysis, and more
importantly context coming through out
of our expert editors here. Markets are
taking this [music] slightly better
footing now compared to when before the
meeting started. Uh the yuan slightly
stronger. Equities are slightly higher.
[music] This is the China show.
Okay, we're looking at uh so just
central bank decisions. We're two of
four through I think hold is the
operative [music] word which perhaps
intersects all all four. So the Fed did
cut a hold is now possibly [music] on
the table for December. We're expecting
the Bank of Japan to hold. That's coming
through in the next few minutes or so.
Anytime now. And of course out of the
ECB also a hold is expected. They're
going into the ECB meeting uh later
later on Thursday. Uh really more in the
BOJ which could come anytime. As I was
pointing out, our folks at Bloomberg
economics have this to say when you look
at the expectations there given the
political developments recently. Many in
the market do think that a pause as a
way to really gauge what politics means
for the actual economy. But flip the
page please. More context coming
through. uh they do see it differently
though. So right when you look ahead in
towards what they expect is a hold this
week they do expect a hike in December.
Market pricing suggests it could come
either December or even in January. So
we'll leave that there for now but we'll
continue the conversation on the Bank of
Japan of course in the for uh out of the
Bank of Japan and of course joining us
right now u out of Singapore of course
is our colleague has Linda with her next
guest and has I believe your next guest
might know a thing or two about the BOJ
[laughter]
>> right from a BOJ Governor Haro Kuroda is
with us here in Singapore uh Kurasan
good to have you with us. I mean lots of
uh expectations that the BOJ will not
move today but in December. What are
your own thoughts on that?
>> Monetary policy because 2% inflation
target was already met and the economy
is growing uh 1.5% or something like
that. Uh and employment rate
unemployment rate is only 2.6% 6% or
something super full employment. So uh
naturally bank of Japan has been uh
raising policy rate and reducing balance
sheet. Uh but for the last uh five
meetings they just stopped the
normalization because
Trump tariffs may have major impact on
the Japanese economy. So bank people
were looking at the impact of uh Trump
tariffs on the Japanese economy. But now
uh the impact appears appears to be less
than uh concerned about uh few months
ago. So that I think they would uh
restart uh normalization process.
>> So there is actually argument
>> for the BOJ to move today. No, there's
no reason for it. Not
>> uh maybe I I I I I'm not quite sure
whether they would move today or not.
But anyway, uh they may move today or
next meeting in December.
>> Newly minted prime minister Takahi has
said that to get to that 2%
>> inflation should be driven by wages. It
is something that you have suggested
yourself.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Are wages at a place where it can drive
inflation.
>> Yeah.
>> In Japan.
>> Yeah. already I think uh wage price
nexus
uh has uh started uh and I think uh the
current situation is that uh although
the initial inflation acceleration was
caused by uh uh commodity price rise and
weakening of the yen after the Ukraine
war in 2022. But now wages are rising
and wage price nexus has been uh
operating. So that I think there's no
reason to uh uh continue to stop uh
normalization.
The Bank of Japan was looking at the
impact of Trump tariffs on the Japanese
economy and now
it is relatively clear that the impact
would be not so large. So they would uh
res restart normalization.
>> So you're confident that wage increases
can be sustained.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Let's take a look at the currency. The
yen has been weak. How much is that a
consideration for the BOJ?
>> Is that a a key factor? Of course uh
exchange rate policy is uh under the
ministry of finance responsibility
but exchange rate affect the inflation
rate and the current uh y exchange rate
uh which is 153
to the dollar or something like that
that is too weak and I should say that
at some stage y rate would recover
toward 120
130 yen to the dollar and uh so current
exchange rate is too weak and that has
been causing uh inflation acceleration.
So uh although extended policy is not
under the bank of Japan responsibility
but of course uh uh
US uh may raise the policy rate and
Japan may uh
do
something other than that and interest
rate differential might uh
uh we narrow down and then of course uh
yen would appreciate that would
depreciate and anyway I think uh the
bank of Japan is
mainly concerned about the negative
impact of Trump tariffs and that uh
has not been so large. So I think anyway
Japan would restart normalization. You
talked about how the yen should get to
120.
>> 120.
>> When do you see the yen getting to that
level? What will it take?
>> You know that exchange rate prediction
is almost impossible. [laughter]
>> Yes.
>> So I don't
>> but give us a sense what will it take
for the end to get there? What needs to
happen?
>> Yeah. One thing is of course uh interest
rate differential should be narrowed
down
and the second is I think uh many uh
market economists as well as uh
financiers
have become somewhat too uh pessimistic
about the Japanese economy but I should
say that the Japanese economy has
recovered from the 15 year long
deflation
with uh half a percentage growth or
something the economy is growing by
1.5%.
And the inflation rate three two to 3%.
So deflation is completely uh overcome
and the Japanese economy is on the
stable growth path of 1 to 1.5%.
So uh but still uh many financiers and
market economists uh continue to be
somewhat uh pessimistic about the
Japanese. This is uh I think wrong. But
until and unless they uh shrug those uh
unnecessary pessimism,
yen might be uh somewhat weak.
Part of the pressure on the yen has to
do with plans for the government to
spend more to cut rates. What do you
make of uh Prime Minister Taki's plans
to do that?
>> Yeah, of course if uh the government
expand the uh fiscal expenditures or
make substantial tax cuts by so doing
the issue of government bond would
increase and so on so forth. that could
make uh both long-term interest rate
rise. On the other hand, yen might be uh
weaker. But why they think so? I mean
their idea is by expanding
expenditures or reducing tax tax burden
the economy might be uh
experiencing uh higher inflation or
something like that. But at this moment
uh it's not likely. So although uh some
uh expansionary fiscal policy may raise
uh growth economic growth uh and may
slightly raise inflation rate but I
don't think inflation rate goes up to 4%
5% and something like that.
>> So so you're saying that longer term the
spending plan will not add to the risks
>> that's right
>> to Japan.
>> That's right. Because I understand those
uh uh expansionary fiscal policy
is not just uh increasing uh consumption
but increasing investment public
investment, private investment in uh
technological uh advancement and so on
that would raise uh potential growth
rate and that would be
anti-inflationary.
So
yes, expansion of fiscal expenditure
might raise inflation. Uh uh but on the
other hand, the particular fiscal policy
now the government is thinking about is
to raise
uh investment
not consumption. So I think that would
raise potential growth rate in the long
run. Kurasan, we're keeping a very close
eye on the US China trade deal that
could come out
>> anytime, hopefully soon. What's your
take on the implications
>> from that?
>> Yeah, I think that would be good for the
world economy because the world economy
has been slightly decelerating.
Uh according to the IMF world economic
outlook uh issued last month the world
economic growth would decelerate from uh
3.3% last year to 3.2% this year and
3.1% next year. um basic causes of
slowing down of the world economic
growth uh have been two. One is US
economic slowdown, Chinese economic
slowdown. Both of them uh have been
caused by Trump tariffs
and uh the trade war between US and
China
uh has been hurting
US economy as well as Chinese economy.
But the end of trade war could mean that
uh that US economy and Chinese economy
could accelerate growth
>> without inflation. Kurodasan, what a
pleasure to have you with us. Thank you
so much for your time today. Former Bank
of Japan Governor and former Asian
Development Bank President Haruhiko
Kuroda coming to you live from the
Barclays Asia Forum. And you heard it uh
Dave, there is no reason for
normalization in Japan to continue.
>> Yeah, could could happen today. Could h
could move in December. Somewhat got
lost there. Just just surreal moment
there just looking at the former BOJ
governor Hrio Corod would there on set
in Singapore. That's also perhaps the
perfect reminder to tell you that a Bank
of Japan decision is due any moment now.
And for Bloomberg clients on your
terminal is an ongoing blog as well. So
separate from the the big events taking
place in South Korea is parallel event
taking place in Tokyo of the Bank of
Japan. Rate decision could come any time
now. Uh yeah, you run the function, you
get updates, commentary, analysis from
our expert editors uh here, right? Uh
from that big story, we'll take you
straight back to the other one where my
co-anker Ivon Mann is standing by in
South Korea for us. And as you can see,
markets are actually uh taking this one
quite well. Dollar China session lows,
MCA Asia Pacific Index session highs,
Ivon.
Yeah, and I think uh for the market,
they're looking for any signs, at least
when it comes to the tone that was
struck between the two leaders in just
the last couple minutes there, I think,
was a positive one, right? You did see
President Xi smiling when he met with
President Xi during that handshake as
well. Uh you know, President Trump
called Xi his friend. Uh and you know,
even President Xi talked about how
they've actually exchanged letters.
They've talked on the phone three times
over the past few years. So it it does
seems to show that the optics are seem
as they enter these talks are still
positive, right? But we're looking for
concrete details. We're looking for any
signs of a possible signed uh some
agreement on paper that could be quite
telling on whether we actually make any
sort of progress here. Right? We've
heard from the US at least on what their
priorities are. We haven't heard too
much on the Chinese side. Right? We talk
about the readouts after koala lumpur
were quite vague when it came to a
consensus around certain things right so
export curves you're wondering how this
is all going to play out when it comes
to rare earths when it comes to the
export curves around software in the US
side of things whether those get watered
down right soybean purchases is it going
to be a fixed volume of US soybeans that
Chinese the Chinese are going to buy
that could be a key question there as
well but then there's a lot of questions
as well of how many they can actually
buy given that they've already loaded up
a lot on a record amount of uh soybeans
from South America for example and of
course there's still a lot of picture
questions about the demand for these
soybeans soybeans too Dave
>> yeah yeah I mean lots of questions and
hopefully we get more answers and not a
lot of questions remain uh following
these talks today that's uh it from us
at least here on the China show our
continuing coverage [music] of course
will proceed and continue here on
Blueberg television we'll leave you with
some live pictures out of [music]
Busousan South Korea where this is
historic current meeting is taking
place. This is Bloomberg.